# Visorum GUI

Visorum GUI is a graphical browser for Visorum archives.

It reads `catalog.json` generated by the archival tools and provides a structured interface for browsing videos. Playback is delegated to external players.

> This project depends on Visorum, a script set built on top of yt-dlp. If you haven't, you should read [that readme.md](https://github.com/Ellie905/Visorum) first.

---

## Prerequisites

- Python 3
- pip
- python venv
- PyQt5
- pyinstaller

---

## Building the GUI

```bash
# initialize venv
python3 -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate
```
```bash
# install required packages
pip install pyinstaller pyqt5
# or
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
```bash
# run build script (bash)
./build.sh
```

The resulting AppImage will be located in:

```
dist/
```

---

## Running

### Development and testing (without building):

```bash
# activate venv
source venv/bin/activate

python3 main.py
```

main.py needs a symlink to your archive's Root Directory (for testing). Create a symlink (or Windows shortcut) linking to your `yt-dlp` archive and place it next to main.py. If the Archive's folder structure follows the expectations in the other readme file, it should work correctly.

### Running the executable / appimage:

Move Visorum from `dist` to your `yt-dlp/1_New_Downloads` next to catalog.json and use:

```bash
sudo chmod +x Visorum # to make it executable

./Visorum
```

---

## Playback Configuration

* Default player: Celluloid
* Supported players: mpv, VLC, Celluloid

To change the player:

* Navigate to the Settings Tab in Visorum GUI or edit `settings.json` manually,
* Update the player mapping

---

## Usage

* Home tab: Browse your full catalog (Video order is dictated by Video's ID field in alphabetical order)
* Search tab: Hidden until a query is made, returns a grid view of videos that match your query (favors title, uploader, description, (youtube) tags, (youtube) category, (filesystem) category, and falls back to filepath, in that order)
* Queue tab: Each video in the above tabs has a "+" button in the bottom right to add that video to your session's queue. This enables playlist-like playback within the external video players. Queue tab is hidden until queue has at least one video. You can save a queue to a .m3u file to save your "playlist" or play all videos in order.
* Settings tab: Adjust runtime settings (resolution changes require restart, and settings can be manually edited in `settings.json`). 

---

## Notes

* `catalog.json` must already exist
* Visorum does not modify the archive
* It is a read-only front end
